Haley Karchmer
Week 7 Individual Reading Assignmnent

From the section, “Mapping the 2009 Election Protests in Tehran,” I found it extremely interesting how the government controls the media and portrayed that only the wealthy people in the north were protesting, but the researcher was able to use social media to reveal that the discontent was much more widespread. By analyzing a hashtag to follow the event and the sentiments of the people, he was able to send maps to protest leaders to help them see that there were others who shared their discontent, thus helping fuel their motivation to continue the fight. I find this participation, this collaboration very inspiring. It was brilliant how he used timelines and visualizations to extract poetry of the people in Tehran and share their true sentiments with the West. Otherwise, we would have been more likely to believe the censored, inaccurate story that was being told by the government, and thus would not have known the real experiences of the protestors themselves. This shows how truly delicate history is, and the responsibility we have to check the perspective it is told from and to help ensure the voices of those experiencing these events remain at the center of this storytelling. I enjoyed the chapter that we read because it articulately explained what participatory culture and digital humanities are and how social media analysis provides ”... both a retrospective and prospective record, historical and future-oriented at the same time, as the archive is not simply a question of what is past but, perhaps more urgently, a question of what is to come, a responsibility to a future that embraces, knows, and is informed by its many pasts.” This is powerful stuff. I appreciated the authors’ discussion of time as a ‘flash’, a ‘network’ and ‘chronos,’ as well as the ethical position of spectators of these events. I also appreciate how the authors discussed the limitations and vulnerabilities of utilizing social media to chronicle historical events, as these are important to keep in mind when analyzing social media data.

Questions:
1. Is this participatory, real-time nature of digital humanities going to ultimately replace how historical knowledge is created and conveyed in the future? Or do you think the traditional approach to history will remain predominant, and the digital humanities will only serve as a branch? Digital Humanities is still a relatively new field: How do you envision the field evolving in the future? 

2. This method of data compilation and storytelling certainly has many positive attributes; but as mentioned in the paper, the participatory nature can contribute to an echo chamber of false information being accepted as fact. As we participate in this approach, what methods can we use to either filter this information or ensure that we garner the most accurate, inclusive and well-intentioned data to represent events like the ones mentioned in the text?
